-President Trump is desperate
to get involved in
the 2020 Democratic primary.
and he's attacking everyone,
from the candidates
to Spike Lee.
For more on this, it's time
for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump demands
constant attention,
and he can't let anyone else
have the spotlight.
It's exhausting.
He's like the older sibling
who's jealous of the new baby.
If you spend five minutes
paying attention to anyone else,
you'll turn around and see him
stuffing crayons in his mouth.
For example,
last night's Oscar ceremony
did not mention Trump
by name once.
The closest anyone came
was Spike Lee
mentioning the 2020 election
in his acceptance speech.
-The 2020 presidential election
is around the corner!
[ Cheers and applause ]
Let's all mobilize.
Let's all be
in the right side of history.
Make the moral choice
between love versus hate.
-I love that he didn't
mention Trump by name,
but Trump heard hate
and assumed it was about him.
When Trump hears
the word "hate,"
it's like his bat signal.
[ As Donald Trump ]
Someone said the word "hate"!
Alfred, get me my Twitter belt!
[ Laughter ]
[ Normal voice ]
And once again --
Once again...
[ Cheers and applause ]
...Trump had to elbow his way
into the spotlight,
Lashing out at Spike Lee
on Twitter.
-He said --
He tweeted this out.
"Be nice if Spike Lee
could read his notes,
or better yet,
not have to use notes at all
when doing his racist hit
on your president,
who has done more
for African-Americans --
criminal justice reform,
lowest unemployment numbers
in history,
tax cuts, et cetera --
than almost any other pres!"
-I'm sorry -- Are you
really calling someone else
a racist who can't read notes?
[ Laughter ]
Every time you read
off a teleprompter,
you sound like an Amazon Echo
that fell in the toilet.
-Our hope is a word and world
through their lives
and though their lives...
They sacrifice every day
for the furniture --
future...
[ Laughter ]
...of their children.
Controlled by large "jearners,"
10,000 known or "suspested"
gang members.
-Ah, yes, "suspested" --
as in, "I watched the
president's press conference
and 'suspested'
he was having a stroke."
Trump can't stand
any mention of 2020
without getting involved.
For example,
CNN reported on Friday
that he's already
planning on wading in
to the 2020 Democratic primary.
Even though the first votes
are still a year away,
Trump reportedly wants to
sow division among Democrats.
-New reporting from CNN
shows Trump is eager to play
a disruptive role in
the Democratic primary.
And in the words of one adviser,
his team is looking for ways
to cause chaos
from the left and right.
One Republican who speaks
to him often tells CNN,
the president wants
to get into the game.
People may knock him in terms
of running the government,
but he gets the campaign
and can't wait to get started.
-It's like the tagline
for a new sitcom --
"He's bad at government,
but great at causing chaos.
Tune in this fall for
'The President is a Cat.'"
[ Laughter and applause ]
Even...
Even Trump's advisers admit
he's bad at running
the government,
but he's good at causing chaos.
I wish I had been there
for that strategy meeting.
"Okay, guys, on this side,
we have weaknesses --
running the government,
foreign policy, domestic policy,
reading, writing,
spelling, and speaking --
and on this side,
we have strengths --
chaos --
so we're gonna go with that."
The only part of the job
Trump likes is campaigning.
In fact, on Saturday,
he seemed jealous
of all the attention
the 2020 Democrats
have been getting
and decided to weigh in,
tweeting, "There is far more
energy on the right
than there is on the left."
Trump definitely doesn't have
more energy than the Democrats.
He doesn't have more energy
than anyone.
You hardly ever see him walking.
His favorite hobby is a game
where you hit a ball
and then you drive
to wherever it lands.
[ Laughter ]
Trump's new strategy for 2020
comes less than a week
after Bernie Sanders
officially joined
what is already a crowded field.
Now, you might remember
the first time Bernie ran.
In 2015, he did so with
a typical pomp and fanfare
we have come to expect from him.
[ Laughter ]
-Okay, thank you all very,
very much -- whoa --
for being out here today.
Let me just make
a brief comment,
and I would be happy
to take a few questions.
We don't have
an endless amount of time.
I've got to get back.
-Soaring words.
It's like we were bothering him
just by listening.
[ As Bernie Sanders ]
I'm running for president.
Now leave me the hell alone!
[ Normal voice ] Also,
why did he just, like,
wander out of a park?
[ As Bernie Sanders ] Sometimes,
I like to sleep on a bench
to give my suit
that nice socialist rumple!
[ Normal voice ] Also,
Bernie's so modest.
He just got the top
of the podium.
[ Laughter ]
[ As Bernie Sanders ]
Just the top!
The signs are wasteful!
[ Normal voice ] Last week,
Bernie figured out
how to do it without
any podium at all.
He announced that he was
running for president
by calling into Vermont's
public radio station
and he was asked specifically
about his age.
-I have been very blessed,
you know, in my life,
with good health.
There are folks out there
today who are,
you know, 90 years of age
who are working hard.
There are folks who are
45 and 50 who are lethargic.
-First of all, it's great
that his idea of a young person
is 45 or 50.
[ Laughter ]
But it's true! Some seniors --
Some seniors just have
old person strength.
They're all bone and muscle,
and that's it.
You know the type.
The old guy you see at the gym
and you think,
"Oh, that's great that
he's getting out of the house."
And then he tears his shirt off
and dead lifts 300 pounds.
[ Laughter ]
Bernie has joined
a very crowded field
that is likely to get
even more crowded.
"The New York Times" lists
a total of at least 25 Democrats
who are either
running for President
or have said they might
run for president.
Look at that --
There's so many people
on that screen,
you didn't even notice
that one of them was
Aerosmith front man
Steven Tyler.
[ Laughter and applause ]
In fact, three more
potential candidates,
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet,
former Colorado governor
John Hickenlooper,
and New York City mayor
Bill de Blasio
joined the campaign trail
in Iowa this week,
stirring speculation
they might run, as well.
And Democratic candidates
aren't just in Iowa --
They're everywhere.
Last week,
Connecticut Congressman
Eric Swalwell,
who has also said
he's considering a run,
tweeted a photo of himself
in Manhattan and said,
"It's snowing in New York.
I need coffee.
The closest cafe
is inside Trump Tower.
This is me walking
to an alternative."
First, as a local,
I just want to say thanks
for hashtagging New York.
You know, maybe we can
get it trending.
[ Laughter ]
Second, kudos for walking
to another coffee shop.
I bet you had to go almost
an eighth of a block.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
I mean...
maybe in Connecticut
that's a big deal, but...
All these candidates are trying
to differentiate themselves
to voters,
but sometimes,
all you need
is a standout moment
on the campaign trail.
Last week, for example,
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand
had one of her own
when she was interrupted
during a speech at
a restaurant in Iowa
by a woman who just needed
to get to the condiments.
-I don't think we should
back away from the bold ideas
that the base
and the grass-roots care about.
-Sorry, I'm just trying
to get some ranch.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
-That right there...
That is a...
That is a real,
real solid reminder
of how hard it is
to run for president.
You want to talk about
health care, gun control,
the environment,
but the end of the day,
most Americans just want
to get some ranch.
[ Laughter ]
I mean, you could probably...
you could probably make
a pretty good showing
running on
a condiment-only platform.
If elected, I guarantee
all mustards will be full
so you never again have to hear
that empty-mustard
farting sound!
[ Imitates empty bottle ]
[ Laughter ]
[ Light applause ]
The Yellow Party!
The Democratic candidates
are also debating key issues
voters care about, like,
for example, climate change,
and the timing cannot
be more urgent.
On Friday, Trump announced
he was nominating
his new ambassador
to the United Nation,
a GOP donor named Kelly Craft
who won't even say if
climate change is real.
Here she is being asked
that question in 2017.
-You know,
there are good sciences
on both issues.
And I believe that
we are committed
to our environment.
Obviously, there are a lot
of people on this Earth,
and that is going to be a result
of some of the damages
to the planet.
-Do you, yourself, believe
in climate change?
-I believe there are
sciences on both sides
that are accurate.
-You believe that
there's scientists --
science that proves
that there is --
man is not causing
climate change?
-Well, I think
that both sides have --
You know, they have
their own results
from their studies,
and I appreciate,
and I respect both sides
of the science.
-She sounds like a sixth grader
who forgot to do a project
for the science fair.
Also, there are not both sides.
There's one side with all
the world's scientists on it,
and then there's the other side,
which is just Donald Trump,
and I assure you
he's not sitting there
in a lab coat and goggles,
studying computer models
and cranking out reports.
-[ As Donald Trump ]
Eureka! I've got it!
I learned how to spell
"hamburger"!
[ Laughter ]
[ Normal voice ]
Climate change will be one
of several major issues
in the 2020 campaign,
and they already
have Democrats energized.
Trump is desperate
to cause chaos,
because it's the only thing
he's good at.
Meanwhile,
most voters are saying...
-I'm just trying
to get some ranch.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]